---
layout: default
---

# theme.lock file

In order to ensure changes made elsewhere are not overwritten, Themekit needs more
information than the dependencies you configure in your `config.yml`. Themekit needs
to store exactly which versions of each asset you currently have on your machine and
the versions that you expect to be on shopify.

To do this Themekit uses a `theme.lock` file in the root of your project (same
directory as your config file). These “lockfiles” look like this:

```
# THIS IS AN AUTOGENERATED FILE. DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE DIRECTLY.
assets/announcement-newbuybutton.svg:
  development: 2017-06-21T04:31:21-11:00
  production: 2017-06-21T04:31:21-11:00
assets/app.js.liquid:
  development: 2017-07-18T06:10:40-11:00
  production: 2017-07-18T06:10:40-11:00
assets/arrow-down.svg.liquid:
  development: 2017-02-06T04:00:37-11:00
  production: 2017-02-06T04:00:37-11:00
assets/cart.svg.liquid:
  development: 2017-07-05T04:49:01-11:00
  production: 2017-07-05T04:49:01-11:00
assets/newp.js.liquid:
  development: 2017-07-14T05:55:03-11:00
  production: 2017-07-14T05:55:03-11:00
```

This is comparable to lockfiles in other package managers like Bundler, Cargo or Yarn.
The lock file will keep track of asset versions across all environments that are in
the `config.yml` file. If you download an asset from one environment it will save
the versions from all other environments for that asset to lock down the expected
version that you will update in the future.

## Managed by Themekit

Your `theme.lock` file is auto-generated and should be handled entirely by Themekit.
As you download/upload/replace with the Themekit CLI, it will automatically update
your `theme.lock` file. Do not edit this file directly as it is easy to break something.

## Check into source control

All `theme.lock` files should be checked into source control (e.g. git or mercurial).
This allows Themekit to manage all asset versions across all machines, whether it
be your coworker’s laptop or a CI server.

Theme publisher should not keep the `theme.lock` file with your release because it
will have no context for other users.
